{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15600\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 n Essex girl, huh?\'94 said my fellow students, as I arrived at Anglia Polytechnic in Cambridge in 1998. They eyed me up and down. I was wearing what I\'92ve always worn: long skirts and stout shoes. The idea that I might own white stilettos, much less wear them to dance around a handbag, was patently absurd. It wasn\'92t the first time I\'92d heard the phrase \'93Essex girl\'94, but it was the first time I realised people meant it.\
\
I was born in Chelmsford in the autumn of 1979. It is now a city, though to our collective fury was not officially one at the time. It has a cathedral, and a river and a statue of Graham Gooch; it has a multistorey carpark, in which my mother parked one day on the roof, and never did it again no matter how many times I begged. It once had a number of beautiful Tudor streets flattened by a zealous local authority in the 60s; there are one or two sorry remnants, but nothing to admire.\
\
 Sarah Perry.\
Facebook Twitter Pinterest  Sarah Perry. Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the Guardian\
I was a solitary girl, content to tread and re-tread the town, generally thinking of a novel I\'92d just read, or the ones I was intending to write when I was grown-up. So: Chelmsford made me, because I seldom went elsewhere, and if I did, it was generally with poor grace, and to other Essex towns.\
\
When I recall my youth, what I see is a series of buildings. There was the girls\'92 grammar school, a red brick building with parquet floors that seemed \'96 to a girl brought up in a 1973 semi \'96 rather grand and romantic. There would been precisely one famous school alumna, but she had been a TV presenter and died young, so it was difficult to feel any vicarious pride. There was the large and modern county library, which had to be accessed almost underground, where I indulged tastes \'96 Terry Pratchett! Stephen King! \'96 not to be found among the shelves of Austen and Hardy at home. When at the age of 16 I decided I\'92d outgrown my teachers, I began to play truant (when eventually suspended for this habit I felt not an ounce of contrition), taking my packed lunch to the library to read on the beanbags.\
\
 I was a solitary girl, content to tread and re-tread the town\
On the corner of New London Road there is a grey brick chapel, severely unadorned save for a single disc of coloured glass at the apex of each window, and it was here I was baptised and married and in the intervening years sang and recited scripture and thought about the condition of my immortal soul. As I write, other places sift up out of my memory: the little museum in which a stuffed bear roars at visitors from the foot of the stairs; the market stall where we bought six yards of oyster silk for my wedding dress; the cafe by the flour mill, where my parents took me for cheese toasties the day I passed my A-levels.\
\
I wanted out, of course: my family had been Londoners for generations back, and I was going to go there and be fascinating and wear a great deal of black. But I do not recall ever feeling anything for Chelmsford but a sort of offhand affection that has since warmed into pride. Recently I discovered an old Chelmsfordian called Anne Knight, born in 1786: a pioneer abolitionist and political radical, she wrote one of the earliest pamphlets on women\'92s suffrage. As an old woman she is shown grimly half-smiling in a photo, holding a sign that bids \'93the outraged world: BE FREE.\'94 I can\'92t see her shoes, but I bet they were stout. Now there\'92s an Essex girl.\
\
Since you\'92re here\'85\
\'85 we have a small favour to ask. More people are reading the Guardian than ever but advertising revenues across the media are falling fast. And unlike many news organisations, we haven\'92t put up a paywall \'96 we want to keep our journalism as open as we can. So you can see why we need to ask for your help. The Guardian\'92s independent, investigative journalism takes a lot of time, money and hard work to produce. But we do it because we believe our perspective matters \'96 because it might well be your perspective, too.\
\
The Guardian is editorially independent, meaning we set our own agenda. Our journalism is free from commercial bias and not influenced by billionaire owners, politicians or shareholders. No one edits our Editor. No one steers our opinion. This is important because it enables us to give a voice to the voiceless, challenge the powerful and hold them to account. It\'92s what makes us different to so many others in the media, at a time when factual, honest reporting is critical.\
\
If everyone who reads our reporting, who likes it, helps to support it, our future would be much more secure. For as little as $1, you can support the Guardian \'96 and it only takes a minute. Thank you.}